# Autonomous-Drone-for-Border-Security-MSc-Dissertaion

Borders serve as crucial entry and exit points for products, individuals, as well as potential threats, demanding adequate surveillance and monitoring. Traditional border security measures have limitations, such as high costs, resource-intensive operations, and the possibility of human error. The main goal of this dissertation is to comprehensively assess the feasibility and potential of employing autonomous drones for enhancing border security as a more efficient, cost effective, and reliable border surveillance system in response to these issues. This research highlights the pressing need for enhanced surveillance technologies, in which unmanned aerial vehicles play an essential part, providing an innovative approach for remote surveillance. Utilising the QGroundControl mission planning software and the Gazebo simulation platform to simulate the drone patrol environment in addition to using YOLOv5 for object detection, the drone can detect potential threats, triggering real-time visual alerts on the command and control centre’s screen and sending a snapshot of the intruder through a Telegram bot on designated personnel’s mobile devices. The results demonstrate how the autonomous drone system for border surveillance was successfully implemented, with the ability to patrol autonomously, detect threats, and alert designated personnel. The detection system powered by YOLOv5 demonstrated great accuracy in identifying potential intruders. Consequently, the method demonstrated its ability to significantly enhance border security. This research, in an ever growing field, lays the groundwork for improving the beneficial interaction between humans and autonomous systems, all while protecting borders and critical infrastructure. Future work could include integrating GPS for intruder tracking and precise security personnel deployment, night vision or infrared cameras for all-weather operation, improved cameras, private and encrypted networks for enhanced security, an upgraded audio/visual alert system, the use of drone swarms for extended coverage and reduced downtime, and the incorporation of facial recognition for comprehensive threat identification.


